#an economic analysis of fisheries production


##Abstract: This research presents an overview of the production of Bangladesh fisheries sector and the trade of fishery products for the last couple of decades. Secondary data is used for the economic analysis. Moreover, literature review type methodology is used to analyse the future challenges, opportunities and development strategies for fisheries sector of Bangladesh. The economic analysis revealed that the fish production and exports gradually increasing. However, although, the progress in terms of growth rate of fish production is noticed here, it is low as compared to other competitive counties of the world. It is also found that inland aquaculture is increasing rapidly in compare to marine aquaculture. On the contrary, existence and support of marine aquaculture practices are very few compare to inland aquaculture to increase fish production in Bangladesh. Therefore, the study proposes the recommendations for the fisheries sector and the future development opportunities for coastal and non-coastal communities. In Bangladesh, fish production through aquaculture has emerged as the utmost potential way to meet protein demand, food security, livelihood and employment. However, it is necessary to emphasize on marine aquaculture to utilize the vast-unused marine fishery resources at our disposal, which can create livelihood opportunities in the coastal regions. In conclusion, this article also proposes developmental strategies for authorities to develop aquaculture sector, which could create opportunities to flourish another potential sector to increase employment as well as contribute to the GDP of Bangladesh. 